# STINE: Statistical Testing of the Interdependence of Neighbors' Effects

STINE proposes a statistical methodology to test whether the influences of left and right neighbors' identities on backbone dihedral angles of a given amino acid are independent. In other words, to assess if left and right neighbors can be separately taken into account when estimating the central residue's (phi, psi) distribution or, on the contrary, if the identity of both residues have to be simultaneously considered, meaning that there exists a significant neighbors combined effect.

The methodology is based on a statistical test assessing the null hypothesis "both neighbors' influences are independent". Small (close to zero) p-values are retrieved if the given samples are very unlikely to be drawn if the null hypothesis is true. This would suggest that both influences are interdependent and therefore that null hypothesis may be rejected with statistical guarantees. 

The function ``independence_test`` -included in the [independence_test.R](independence_test.R) file together with its required implementation guidelines- performs the independence test given a sample of (phi, psi) conformations corresponding to a fixed central amino-acid with different combinations on left and right neighbors. The file [ALA_angles.RData](ALA_angles.RData) is an example of such data, containing a sample of dihedral angles of an alanine amino acid. Some examples and analyses performed on [ALA_angles.RData](ALA_angles.RData) data are included in [examples.R](examples.R). The first corresponds to the implementation of the statistical test with the three discretization methods proposed in the article. The second assesses the effect of neighbors' polarity of the magnitude of interdependence, for different neighbor settings as described in the text.
 
